feat(android): Improve Android SDK docs entry point (#6290)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/android/manual-configuration.mdx

---
title: Manual Configuration
sidebar_order: 2
description: "Learn how to manually configure the Sentry Android SDK."
---
<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-primer" />

<PlatformSection noGuides notSupported={["android", "dart", "elixir", "flutter", "perl", "react-native", "unity", "unreal"]}>

> <Alert level="info" title="Using a framework?">

Reviewer: I think this alert is also not being displayed:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4999776/218738389-a728b69d-62c2-4ace-bc43-8d8153fe7cf7.png)

maybe we could remove it

<Note>

The [NDK integration](/platforms/android/using-ndk/) comes packaged with the SDK and requires API level 16, though other levels are supported. If you're using multiple Sentry dependencies, you can add a [bill of materials](/platforms/android/configuration/bill-of-materials) to avoid specifying the version of each dependency.

</Note>

## Configuration

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-config" />

<Note>

Don't already have an account and Sentry project established? Head over to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/signup/), then return to this page.

</Note>

## Verify

<PlatformSection notSupported={["unreal"]}>

This snippet includes an intentional error, so you can test to make sure that everything's working as soon as you set it up:

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-verify" />

To view and resolve the recorded error, log into [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) and open your project. Clicking on the error's title will open a page where you can see detailed information and mark it as resolved.

<Note>

Learn more about manually capturing an error or message in our <PlatformLink to="/usage/">Usage documentation</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

> 

Reviewer: I guess we can remove everything below that, since it's an android-specific page? 

Also, not sure if it's intended, but the "Next Steps" section is not displayed here actually:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4999776/218737774-414ddc65-15a5-441b-97c4-6b00b80052a6.png)

---
title: Manual Configuration
sidebar_order: 2
description: "Learn how to manually configure the Sentry Android SDK."
---
<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-primer" />

<PlatformSection noGuides notSupported={["android", "dart", "elixir", "flutter", "perl", "react-native", "unity", "unreal"]}>

<Alert level="info" title="Using a framework?">

Get started using a guide listed in the right sidebar.

</Alert>

</PlatformSection>

## Installation

> If you don't want the Sentry Gradle plugin to install the Sentry SDK automatically for you, you can define the dependency directly to your `build.gradle` file of your app module.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't want the Sentry Gradle plugin to install the Sentry SDK automatically, you can define the dependency directly in the `build.gradle` file of your app module.

```

```groovy {filename:app/build.gradle}
// Make sure mavenCentral is there.
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

// Enable Java 1.8 source compatibility if you haven't yet.
android {
    compileOptions {
        sourceCompatibility = JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
        targetCompatibility = JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
    }
}

// Add Sentry's SDK as a dependency.
dependencies {
    implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android:{{ packages.version('sentry.java.android', '4.2.0') }}'
}
```

```kotlin {filename:app/build.gradle.kts}
// Make sure mavenCentral is there.
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

// Enable Java 1.8 source compatibility if you haven't yet.
android {
    compileOptions {
        sourceCompatibility = JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
        targetCompatibility = JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
    }
}

// Add Sentry's SDK as a dependency.
dependencies {
    implementation("io.sentry:sentry-android:{{ packages.version('sentry.java.android', '4.2.0') }}")
}
```

> <Note>
> 
> [NDK integration](/platforms/android/using-ndk/) is packed with the SDK and requires API level 16, though other levels are supported.
> 
> If you are using multiple Sentry dependencies, you can add a [bill of materials](/platforms/android/configuration/bill-of-materials) to avoid specifying the version of each dependency.
> 
> </Note>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Note>

The [NDK integration](/platforms/android/using-ndk/) comes packaged with the SDK and requires API level 16, though other levels are supported. If you're using multiple Sentry dependencies, you can add a [bill of materials](/platforms/android/configuration/bill-of-materials) to avoid specifying the version of each dependency.

</Note>
```

> ## Configuration
> 
> <Note>
> 
> Don't already have an account and Sentry project established? Head over to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/signup/), then return to this page.
> 
> </Note>
> 
> <PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-config" />
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configuration

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-config" />

<Note>

Don't already have an account and Sentry project established? Head over to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/signup/), then return to this page.

</Note>

```
I think it makes more sense for this note to come after we give them configuration instructions. It's a bit distracting if it's the first thing you see.

> ## Verify
> 
> <PlatformSection notSupported={["unreal"]}>
> 
> This snippet includes an intentional error, so you can test that everything is working as soon as you set it up:
> 
> </PlatformSection>
> 
> <PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-verify" />
> 
> <Note>
> 
> Learn more about manually capturing an error or message in our <PlatformLink to="/usage/">Usage documentation</PlatformLink>.
> 
> </Note>
> 
> To view and resolve the recorded error, log into [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) and open your project. Clicking on the error's title will open a page where you can see detailed information and mark it as resolved.
> 
> <PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "node"]}>
> 
> <PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-sourcemaps" />
> 
> </PlatformSection>
> 
> <PageGrid header="Next Steps" nextSteps />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Verify

<PlatformSection notSupported={["unreal"]}>

This snippet includes an intentional error, so you can test to make sure that everything's working as soon as you set it up:

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-verify" />

To view and resolve the recorded error, log into [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) and open your project. Clicking on the error's title will open a page where you can see detailed information and mark it as resolved.

<Note>

Learn more about manually capturing an error or message in our <PlatformLink to="/usage/">Usage documentation</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "node"]}>

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-sourcemaps" />

</PlatformSection>

<PageGrid header="Next Steps" nextSteps />
```
It makes for a smoother user experience if we let them read the entire section before diverting their attention with a note :)
